# Alexis Good
  ## Introduction
  For my final project, I wanted to make an audio visualizer. I really wanted to challenge myself while also using elements we learned about in class, so I thought that a visualizer would be a good way of doing that. I was inspired by other visualizers I'd seen in the past, like the ones everyone has probably seen while listening to music in their friends' dorms. I had to research a lot of information on my own in order to complete this project. I also found [Shiffman's series on sound visualization](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6aFcVjlDAkkGIixw70s7jpW) to be an indespensable resource.
  ***
  ## Work Done
  I think it is fair to say that a lot of work went into this project. p5.js sound was completely new to me, so I relied on Shiffman's tutorials and the documentation to understand how I needed to go about writing the code. First, I found that although p5.sound.min.js was already installed, I had to go into the index.html file and un-comment out a line in order to use the sound library. I knew I wanted to play a song, so I also learned that I had to use a local server in order to host the mp3 file. I ended up using Python SimpleHTTPServer, which was fairly easy to understand once I had played around with it. In the end, learning about activating the sound library and using a local server did take up a fair amount of my time working on this project. Once I had figured those things out I had an easier time with the project.

  Next, I went through the process of playing the mp3 file. After playing with the program for a while, I learned that I needed to have the mp3 file located inside of the folder that I was hosting with the local server in order for it to play correctly. I went through the documentation for the sound library functions on the website in order to figure out how to properly write everything. I learned from Shiffman's videos that it would be helpful to include a callback when I wrote the loadSound command so that the program wouldn't give me a console error message if the song hadn't loaded completely yet. Since the local server I used tended to be slower, I thought that would be the best option for my code. After loading and playing the song with the callback paramater, I also added a play/pause button. The button is written not to appear until the song loads, ensuring that no errors occured.

  After that, I used p5.Amplitude to read the amplitude data from my song. I knew that the program needed to read the data from the song and convert it into shapes, and I also wanted to make a classic looking visualizer. I made global variables for the amplitude value and for an empty array that I would push data from the song into. I made some variables to define the shapes I wanted to display and their spacing. I ended up creating a for loop to loop through the array and display rectangles in sizes that correlated with the amplitude/volume of the song. I also used the i value in my for loop to make the rectangles change colors. Lastly, I created an if statement that splices the last value of the array in order to keep the visuals scrolling across the screen.
  ***
 ## Thoughts
 I honestly had a lot of fun working on this project. It was really interesting and enjoyable to research the topic on my own while being able to apply things I had learned previously. It's really satisfying to see real results while learning something new. While we always feel like we can do more with projects, I think that my end result was visually appealing and interesting. 
